[Music]
the state of our knowledge about the
universe is in a strange place now we
can map countless stars around us but we
seem to be just stumbling upon every
discovery some of them are so puzzling
even skeptical scientists start to
suspect aliens the brightest example is
the tabby star whose light dims as if
there were a giant artificial mega
structure around it but what's really
happening there KIC eight four six two
eight five two or simply called tabby
star is a mysterious celestial object
situated in the constellation Cygnus
some 1470 light-years away from the Sun
nothing about this star is particularly
exceptional it's about 50% bigger than
our Sun and 1000 degrees hotter and
there are other objects just like it in
the universe nevertheless it became
known as the strangest star ever
observed to understand why we should
dive a bit deeper into how it was first
found astronomers have developed several
methods of detecting and researching
stars throughout the recent decades of
rapid technological progress but one of
them stood out it wasn't only suitable
for star discovery but also allowed the
detection of some of our greatest points
of interest to date exoplanets outer
worlds orbiting distant stars they're
hiding the keys to all the mysteries
about our solar system and any possible
answers to the sacred questions we're
still afraid to ask how did we come to
be and is there any other life in the
universe this method is called transit
photometry don't mind the big name to
simplify to its core this method can be
explained with a trivial example imagine
you're looking at some distant light and
then something flies right in front of
it the light is too bright and the
object is too far and fast for you to
even guess if it was a bird or a bat but
you can tell for sure that something was
there a second before this
the light itself dimmed and flickered
for a moment you can even figure out how
big that object that passed by was by
how long and strong the observed dimming
was transit photometry measures the
dimming of the star's light when the
planet passes on its orbit between the
point of observation and the star in
question as you can already see this
method provides a lot of information but
has its flaws this is exactly the reason
why so much guesswork is involved when
using transit photometry despite that
though a record number of exoplanets
were discovered using it in 2014 around
850 planets total tabi star is named
after professor tabitha Boyajian who was
the first to notice a strange quality
while other stars dim by about 1% when a
planet passes in front of them tabby
star dimmed much more the first recorded
sightings of it made in 1890 testify
that by the year 1989 this star had lost
about 20% of its shine of course this
couldn't be caused by a planet passing
by let's just say it would take a planet
bigger than the star itself to do that
but that's just impossible stars remain
the same brightness for billions of
years with almost no change at all it
became even more strange when
astronomers figured out that tabi star
is in the middle of its lifecycle there
shouldn't be any disturbances in its
light whatsoever but what caused the
dimming then this is where the notorious
guesswork began or should I say a long
scientific investigation in 2016
why Aegean and her team found archived
recordings suggesting that tabby star
isn't just fading rapidly at times its
shine is restored to its natural state
and then it gets obscured once again
they were even able to figure out a
pattern of dims reliably predicting the
next shift in brightness this produced
the first Theory tabby star may have a
giant hive of comets and asteroids
orbiting around it it could obscure the
light of the star in places where the
group of objects is denser
that theory fell short hives like that
are observed only around young stars
going through the process of their
formation and tabi is much older than
that besides a high number of comets
around the star would produce a Titanic
amount of infrared radiation but it
wasn't even detected and then consider
the following the shifts of brightness
are identical each time some of them
even go in a symmetrical shape can you
imagine a hive of comets that go in a
strict order with each spin around the
blazing star that's unheard of they
would change their position constantly
their movement would appear almost
chaotic to any observer on the earth
looks like lots of comets but goes in
strict patterns yeah you're not the only
one who thought that it sounds like
something unnatural in fact the idea of
a structure spinning around a star is
long known to astronomers it's called
the Dyson Sphere hypothetically a
structure like this could be made by a
highly developed civilization to harvest
the energy from a star it would consist
of a high number of thin plates
positioned around a star you can imagine
them like moon sized solar panels the
most interesting thing about this idea
is that such structures would be
relatively easy to find because they
would obscure the stars in a strange and
inexplicable way Dyson spheres are
proposed to be the first sign of a
highly advanced civilization existing in
the universe the probability of a Dyson
Sphere causing tabi stars Dimmick was
put to the test by searching for any
radio signals in the area of the star
but unfortunately scientists were met
with nothing but silence there's a catch
though
our data can be unreliable if we're
really talking about some other
civilization if they're able to build
something like the Dyson Sphere they
might not use radio signals at all it's
unimaginable for us here and now but in
a somewhat distant future we too may
refuse to use the radio as a prime way
of communication just some 300 years ago
we could only use the postal service to
communicate with each other from a
distance on a galactic scale 300 years
is just the blink of an eye
imagine how wondrous some new or
completely alien technology could be
anyways the scientific community was
shall we say outraged about the decision
to even try and test the alien theory of
tabi Stars mystery in the first place
from a skeptics point of view it's
always better to rule out every other
natural possibility and only then
consider something unnatural like that
so recently another much more grounded
tabby star theory emerged according to
it there must be a giant brown dwarf
planet going around tabby star at
distant orbits and I mean giant brown
dwarfs are barely considered planets at
all they are objects much more massive
than the biggest of jupiter-like planets
but smaller than the tiniest red dwarf
star the lightest type of star there is
the presence of several brown dwarfs in
orbit around one star is quite unlikely
by itself but that's not even everything
that would have to be involved to result
in something like the mysterious tabby
star dimming these brown dwarfs should
have colossal asteroid rings and once
again I can't stress the word colossal
enough these rings should be far beyond
the limit that we're aware of currently
this limit has a name Roche radius
beyond this radius no asteroid ring can
sustain its form it'll eventually all
collect into one object and become a
satellite the particular brown dwarf
that's theoretically orbiting tabby star
would have to be 15 times more massive
than Jupiter and have six layers of
planetary rings it still doesn't sound
too reliable but that's the best theory
there is or to be fair the best theory
there was until last year astronomer
Brian Metzger and his colleagues at
Columbia University suggested that the
objects surrounding tabi star and
causing the strange flickering of its
light might be the remains of crushed
planets and their EXO moans their theory
implies that those planets
could have crossed the same-old Roche
radius of the star itself when that
happens the planets would deform pole
and flatten then they break into pieces
under the colossal influence of tabi
stars gravitational force even though
this should have happened around 200
thousand years ago with tabi star and
its planet the remains of this object
would still be in a closed orbit of the
star that's what obscures tabi star from
our telescopes from time to time can
this theory place a period in the long
investigation of tabi stars mystery
it'll eventually be proven either true
or false
until then tabby star will remain the
greatest secret of the stars now have
you heard of some strange celestial
objects or a phenomenon that caught your
attention more than this one let me know
down in the comments if you learned
something new today think of this video
a like and share it with a friend
but hey don't go naming your cat tabby
star just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life
you